feat(axe.externalAPIs): add public api for setting elementInternal data (#5105)
dequelabs/axe-core: doc/external-apis.md

# External APIs

> Axe externalAPIs can be used to configure to pass information to axe-core that it would be otherwise unable to obtain on it's own (such as when it is running in an isolated JavaScript context of an extension). By default axe-core will try to gather the information if the external API for it is not set. If the external API is set axe-core will only rely on the passed in data and will not gather it itself.

Reviewer: Worth a cross-link to `doc/element-internals.md` from this file — a reader following the `axe.externalAPIs({ elementInternals })` setup here can do everything correctly and still see no behavior change because `axe._enableElementInternals` defaults to off. The integration test in this PR demonstrates exactly that gate.

> Axe externalAPIs can be used to configure to pass information to axe-core that it would be otherwise unable to obtain on it's own (such as when it is running in an isolated JavaScript context of an extension). By default axe-core will try to gather the information if the external API for it is not set. If the external API is set axe-core will only rely on the passed in data and will not gather it itself.

Reviewer: Not a blocker, just a consistency question — two small grammar nits on this line: "configure to pass" reads as a double-verb, and "it's" should be "its" (possessive).

```suggestion
Axe externalAPIs can be used to pass information to axe-core that it would be otherwise unable to obtain on its own (such as when it is running in an isolated JavaScript context of an extension). By default axe-core will try to gather the information if the external API for it is not set. If the external API is set axe-core will only rely on the passed in data and will not gather it itself.
```

```js
axe.externalAPIs({
  // Pass ElementInternal data to axe-core
  elementInternals() {
    return Promise.resolve(internalData);
  }
});
```

> ## axe.externalAPIS({ elementInternals })

Reviewer: Heading capitalizes the `S` (`externalAPIS`) — the actual API is `axe.externalAPIs`.

```suggestion
## axe.externalAPIs({ elementInternals })
```

```js
axe.externalAPIs({
  elementInternals() {
    return Promise.resolve([
      {
        // The CSS ancestry selector, which is either a string or an array of strings if the element is inside a ShadowDom tree. Generated using `axe.utils.getAncestry(node)`
        ancestry: 'html > body > main > my-custom-button',

        // Object of each ElementInternals property name and value. The properties must be serialized so some serialization work is needed for element reference properties (idref(s))
        internals: {
          // A simple String value
          role: 'button',

          // An idref value. The type will always be "HTMLElement" and the value is a CSS ancestry selector
          ariaActiveDescendantElement: {
            type: 'HTMLElement',
            value: 'html > body > main > my-custom-button > div:nth-child(1)'
          },

          // An idrefs value. The type will always be "NodeList" and the value is an array of CSS ancestry selectors for each node
          ariaLabelledbyElements: {
            type: 'NodeList',
            value: ['html > body > div:nth-child(4)']
          }
        }
      }
    ]);
  }
});
```

> Axe-core provides a package script `gather-internals.js` that can used to inject into the main context when working in an extension. The returned object from the script can be used directly as the returned value of the Promise for `elementInternals`.

Reviewer: Couldn't find a `gather-internals.js` script anywhere in this PR or in the repo at HEAD. Is it landing in a follow-up, or should this section be cut for now? As-is, a reader following the extension example will hit a 404 with no path forward.

If it's coming separately, worth at minimum calling that out here (e.g. "shipping in #NNNN") so the example isn't a dead end on release.

Author: https://github.com/dequelabs/axe-core/pull/5099, which is required and will be in when we release

> Axe-core provides a package script `gather-internals.js` that can used to inject into the main context when working in an extension. The returned object from the script can be used directly as the returned value of the Promise for `elementInternals`.

Reviewer: Not a blocker — "can used" → "can be used".

```suggestion
Axe-core provides a package script `gather-internals.js` that can be used to inject into the main context when working in an extension. The returned object from the script can be used directly as the returned value of the Promise for `elementInternals`.
```

```js
const internals = await chrome.scripting.executeScript({
  target: {
    tabId: tab.id
  },

>   files: ['/node_moduels/axe-core/gather-internals.js'],

Reviewer: Typo — `node_moduels` should be `node_modules`. Copy-paste of this example would silently fail.

```suggestion
  files: ['/node_modules/axe-core/gather-internals.js'],
```

  world: 'MAIN'
});
```

> ## axe.externalAPIS({ elementInternalsTimeout })

Reviewer: Same `externalAPIS` → `externalAPIs` typo as on line 14.

```suggestion
## axe.externalAPIs({ elementInternalsTimeout })
```

> Since gathering ElementInternals data is an async operation, you can configure how long axe-core will wait for `elementInternals` promise to resolve. By default the timeout is set to 1 second. If the timeout occurs axe-core will not run and will throw an error.

Reviewer: "will throw an error" — the implementation rejects the Promise rather than throwing synchronously. Consumers reading this would wire `try/catch` around the `axe.run` call site, which won't catch a Promise rejection.

```suggestion
Since gathering ElementInternals data is an async operation, you can configure how long axe-core will wait for `elementInternals` promise to resolve. By default the timeout is set to 1 second. If the timeout occurs `axe.run` will reject with an error.
```

Author: A rejected promise during the audit bubbles up to a throw in axe-core using a callback function, but rejects if using a promise. Not sure which would be the best wording in this case.
